
# Minutes of the second boardmeeting of Stichting Hackerspace Nijmegen
March 27, 2018

present: Michiel Klaarwater, Ed van Dalen, Sjoerd Timmer 
absent: Stefan Marsiske

## Actions:
* ***sjoerd*** call unive again to inquire about their insurance options. 
* ***michiel*** will prepare concrete and informed options for internet access in the space. 
* ***stef***: make a budget (a coarse expected income/expense estimation). 
* ***sjoerd*** will archive incomming letters from kvk and spam. 
* ***Ed*** will sends an email inviting people on the list to next weeks first meeting in the new space!
* ***Michiel*** will reply to elzenstraat about rescheduling the opening event. 
* ***michiel*** will email everyone about their first donations as soon as the bank account is active; also asking people to make a contribution to the founding costs.
* ***sjoerd*** will send out emails to general@hsnl and hackerspacenijmegen@hsbp and be the contact person if people ask questions about wether we do or don't want certain stuff. 
* ***sjoerd*** will investigate (culturele) anbi status requirements. 

## Subjects:
1. insurance:
	there is some progress but no resolution.
	decision: we must wait for details.
	Action[sjoerd]: call unive again to inquire about their insurance options. 
2. internet in space:
	we should get something cheap and simple at first. 
	we should take into account that we get a good router. 
	we should get a contract that can be upgraded later. 
	we should aim for spacenet (ldap authenticated roaming wifi in dutch hackerspaces) in the long run. 
	Action[michiel]: will prepare concrete and informed options for internet access in the space. 
3. budget:
	Action[stef]: make a budget (a coarse expected income/expense estimation). 
4. Incoming mail/letters:
	we have received confirmation letters from KvK and some advertisement.
	Action[sjoerd] will archive incomming letters from kvk and spam.
5. Opening event & Open day:
	There is an issue with the opening event colliding with preparations of other renters for the open day.
	Even though our event can be confined to our space it may be unpleasant to share the building (i.e. if more people show up than we expect, ed.: or if we want to do a bbq afterwards?).
	alteranatives are: evening-only event on saturday? small insider party on the first open tuesday (next tuesday)?
	standing decision: we DO paryicipate in the open day!
	new decision: the opening party (originally scheduled on Saturday) will have to be scheduled later. Next Tuesday we call upon list members to come to the new space for a drink and talk to them about an official opening event. 
	Action[Ed] will sends an email inviting people on the list to next weeks first meeting in the new space!
	Action[Michiel] will reply to elzenstraat about rescheduling the opening event.
	We can get catering for 2.50 per person on the open day (Sunday).
	decision: we will not pay extra for catering on the open day.
6. foundingcost:
	total around 450. 
	Action[michiel] will email everyone about first donations as soon as account is active and also ask people to make an extra donation to help in startup cost. There will be no elaborate inventory of who pays what. We just ask people to transfer a one-time donation to the account stating in the subject that this is for administration costs. After 2 weeks we (the board members) will equally divide the remainder. We expect that it is unlikely that our donations will be less then the maximum of what others contribute but if that happens we'll deal with it then. 
7. Furniture and other stuff for the space:
	Michiel has some chairs and tables. That way we can at least sit down during next weeks gathering.
	Action[sjoerd] will send out emails to general@hsnl and hackerspacenijmegen@hsbp and be the contact person if people ask questions about wether we do or don't want certain stuff. 
8. ANBI status:
	michiel forwarded the email from loui to sjoerd about this topic. 
	Action[sjoerd]: will investigate (culturele) anbi status
9. Other announcements:
* A second hand ultimaker will be donated to the space. Sjoerd will pick it up this Saturday.
* voxweb (from ru) wants to make a short (~2 minute) video item about our hackerspace. They'd like to come to the space some tuesday evening to get a taste of what it looks like.   