# Budgets

We need money to operate.

## Rationale

When there is unlabeled money to spend there is also discussion,
arguments, bikeshedding and sometimes fights how to spend it. This is
not healthy for a community. Some organizations solve this by having
an authoritarian decision making entity (dictator, committee, board,
etc.), this does not solve the problem, but only creates an
abstraction converting the fights on how to spend the money into
fights over who has authority to decide. This is also not healthy for
a community. Another unhealthy solution is not to collect any money
and not to have centralized decision-making entity.

The following is a description of a system that minimizes community
infighting, while allowing to still collect and spend money on things.

## The Foundation

The main goal of the the Hackerspace Nijmegen Foundation is to focus
on providing a physical location, by taking care of collecting
contributions for the upkeep of it. Minimizing power over the budget of
the foundation makes it a servant of the community and not an
authority over it.

## The community

By minimizing the authority of the foundation the responsibility is
shifted to the community. Members of the community can start to
collect money to spend on certain things. This has many benefits:

  1. anyone can be steward of a project, there is no
     single-point-of-failure.

  2. committed members decide on collection and spending instead of
     the general community, which reduces bikeshedding and smartassing
     by uninvolved bystanders.

  3. Expertise and contributions matter when making decisions, instead
     of seniority of some committee.

  4. There is no single entity to take control of to control the
     community.

  5. Members assume responsibility and thus increase their commitment
     instead of waiting for/blaming the authority.

  6. Votes in favor of spending for a certain goal can be measured
     directly in money or other contributions donated to this goal,
     eliminating endless discussions.

Contrast this with one big unlabeled budget governed by a
committee/board and all the general discussions and votes when someone
wants to spend part of it for something that no one else or only a
minority really wants.

## Income

It is important to note that the income of the hackerspace are more
diverse than only monthly contributions from members. There is income
generated from selling beverages/munchies, there is income generated
by participating in events (like the AVG awareness event at the
Province), donations by visitors, proceeds from sales of kits,
t-shirts, other merchandise, in-kind contributions sold at events
(like self-baked cookies, homebrew beer, etc), etc.

## The budgets

The operation of a hackerspace involves a bunch of different budgets,
some are essential, some are of general interest and some are specific
interest.

### The essentials

The most important budget is the monthly operating cost of a space:
the rent and the utilities (electricity, water, internet, bank account,
insurance). This is a budget that is essential, without there would be
no space, and little community. This budget and the contract with the
landlord is the reason for the existence of the foundation. It is the
interest of everyone caring about the space, the budget is collected
by the monthly contributions and governed by the principles laid out
in [contributing](contributing). The monthly contributors are
directly responsible for the sustainability of the space. If there is
not enough contributors to pay for the essential upkeep costs then
that implicitly means there is not enough interest/demand for a
hackerspace, and it is thus cheapest to cease operations and maybe
virtualize or disband entirely.

 - Owner: Foundation
 - Size: ~350EUR/month
 - Purpose: rent

## General Interest Budgets

There is a bunch of general interest budgets that although not all
necessary for the daily operations, they are useful for certain
events.

### Emergency Budget

One budget that has been noted is an emergency budget in case of some
major accident like the roof leaking or suddenly all monthly
contributors stopping at once. This budget should be at least one
month of rent in case of canceling the contract. The maximum should
be chosen so that this budget does not constitute too much dead
money. The most important about this budget is, that is should be only
used for emergencies. After filling up this budget there is no need to
collect more, so this should not be a regular burden for the monthly
contributions, only as long as the decided buffer is not filled
up. This budget should also be handled by the foundation.

  - Owner: Foundation
  - Size: minimum 287EUR (one month cancellation fee), maximum 6-700 eur?
  - Purpose: emergencies

### Fluctuation Smoothing Budget

In case a monthly contribute fails to chip in their part for whatever
reason the others should not be forced to change their contributions
accordingly. For this a small smoothing buffer of 2-3 average monthly
contributions should be maintained by the foundation. This should
smooth out fluctuations and provide some leeway for other contributors
to figure out if this is a permanent change and adjust their own
monthly contributions or if there is a way to resolve the missing
contributions in another way.

### Operating Budget

This budget is mostly for replacing consumables like soap,
toilet-paper, cleaning chemicals, light bulbs, etc. stuff that breaks
or needs replacement regularly. This budget does not have to be to
big, a few dozen euros should be enough. Also important is that this
is spent on things that are urgent and can be handled by anyone. The
proposal is to keep a bit of cash for these kind of expenses directly
in the space so that members who notice something needs replacement
can quickly and unbureaucraticly replace what needs replacing. This
budget can be filled up with the proceeds of the bar.

## Specific Interest Budgets

All other budgets that are not covered by the General Interest Budgets
are special interest budgets and should be handled by those who want
to work towards a specific goal. Specific goals most often include
general decoration and investment into new tools. Taking
responsibility for an investment speeds up the process, instead of
having to wait for some committee to discuss and decide whether and
how to do things, those who are committed to the goal self-organize
and collect the money themselves for this goal. If the goal is widely
recognized as a worthy goal for the community then the support will be
quickly gathered, if there is little interest in a goal that will also
be quickly determined. Instead of long never ending threads on IRC or
mailing list, things get decided by the material and financial support
towards reaching a goal. This not only decentralizes the decision
making, it also ensures that the decision is made by those committed to
the idea and it is not impeded by those who are only bystanders. It is
much easier to collect financial support for specific goals like:

  - "we want to buy this display $url for the decoration of the space it costs $eur"
  - "we want to buy this laser cutter $url for $eur"

Goals that are more generic will have a harder time to collect the
necessary resources, and will also generate much more discussion and
disagreement in the community especially when factions committed to
the budget do not agree on spending it for something more concrete.

All this does not mean there cannot be some very unspecific budget
built up and handled by some members of the community. It only means
that the foundation itself will only be a party to this if there is a
clear financial benefit (e.g tax optimization) or contractual
obligation (like the rental contract). Even if the foundations is
involved in such budgets the decision of how to spend this lies with
those committed to the goal for which the budget was setup, the
foundation only provides a bank account and legal entity, no decision
authority.

Specific interest budgets should be handled separately from the
monthly contributions for the upkeep as they are ad-hoc and optional.

## Thanks

Thanks to themba, joostvb, sa007, ayke, raboof, mrngm, buzz, bugblue,
dekkers, realitygaps for all the inspiring comments and questions.
