# Contributing

Our hackerspace is operated by ourselves, it is what we make out of
it. If you want to help us out, the following principles should serve
as a guideline.

## TL;DR
We have a monthly upkeep for operating the space, and everyone should
share this burden equally. We also understand that we come from
different social backgrounds with different economic resources
available, thus we recommend everyone to pay 1/N (where N is the
number of contributors) of the monthly upkeep, but we also accept that
those with less means can pay less, but minimum half of 1/N, and those
with more income pay more but maximum double of 1/N. In the end the
only thing that matters is if we can pay the monthly rent, or not, in
which case we disband the hackerspace due to there not being enough
interest to maintain it.

## Solidarity

We understand that getting a foothold in a meritocratic community is
sometimes biased by factors outside of our influence. We acknowledge
that there are social differences between our contributors, some have
well paying jobs, others are students, others might be unemployed,
prefering to be socially responsible, or even activists, with much
less income. We do not judge based on economic strength but based on
how beneficial the contributions of an individual are towards the
community and its standing in society.

We thus allow contributors to keyholders even if they cannot share the
burden of the upkeep cost equally. We also believe that those who have
more economic resources are happy to share the burden of those who
have less, especially if those with less resources are respected and
important members of our community.

## Altruism

A hackerspace is about sharing resources (the space, tools, knowledge,
etc). We understand that whatever we put in, we take out much more in
other forms than that. One way of sharing is to take a bigger share of
the monthly costs so we can allow others who are less fortunate to
contribute in their own ways to our community. Those of us who are
generous will surely own the respect of the community for showing
solidarity and helping others.

We currently have people contributing fully to the upkeep costs
without them wanting a key. These contributors understand that a
hackerspace is a good thing to have, and even if they do not have the
time to be present, they still contribute monthly to the upkeep.

## Trust and Respect

Becoming a keyholder is not a right, but a privilege.

To earn the privileg to become a keyholder you must bear the trust and
respect of the current community making up the hackerspace. If you
want to get a key, we have to trust you:
  1. that you represent the space towards visitors in a respectful and
     responsible way,
  2. that you contribute to the upkeep according to your possibilities,
  3. that you maintain (and improve) on the infrastructure and
     facilities provided by us (e.g.: leave the place in a better
     condition than you found it)

## Costs
How much is the monthly operating cost?

### Rent and Utilities
We had a discount in the 1st 6 months and paid only €150 / month.
Currently our rent is €220 / month.

For utilities we currently pay €137 / month.

### Bank account
We pay Triodos €8,50/month + [transaction cost](https://www.triodos.nl/nl/zakelijk/internet-zaken-rekening-zakelijke-rekening/kosten/)
(+ €20,-/year (card) - not sure if we even have a card)

### Internet
Currently we pay €45.38 (incl btw) per month.

### Total monthly upkeep
Our current costs are €410.5 (rent+internet+bank)

But this will increase a bit with our insurance when
we have one.

## Payment info
our bank account is:
 - IBAN: NL15 TRIO 0379 2391 16
 - BIC: TRIONL2U

if you want to set up regular payments, they're best timed around the 20th of each month.

a more or less accurate listing of our members and their contributions is at:

https://lite.framacalc.org/Elzenstraat-contribution
